This lecture is about raw and
processed data.
So I'm gonna be talking a little
bit about how raw data may
be different depending on
who you're talking to.
So some people might consider
one version of the data raw, and
some people might consider
another version of the data raw.
So first I was gonna talk
about the definition of data.
So as we saw in the data scientist
toolbox, data are values of qualitative or
quantitative variables,
belonging to a set of items.
So the set of items might
be the population or
the set of objects that you
might be interested in.
And the values of course
quantitative variables and
the variables are the things
that your measuring.
And you might measure them in qualitative
terms or in quantitative terms.
So usually when we think about variables
we think about things like this.
If you look down here at the bottom.
We think about country of origin,
sex, treatment, and
quantitative variables like height,
weight, blood pressure.
A lot of these measurements
are actually derived
from much lower level measurements.
So for example,
if you think about blood pressure,
blood pressure's actually measured by
calculating a pressure measurement.
And so there's actually a lot
of low level things that go
into calculating that
pressure measurement.
And so those low level things
are the kinds of things
that we're going to be talking
about in raw versus processed data.
So the raw data are the original
source of data,
they're often very hard to use for data
analyses because they're complicated or
they're hard to parse or
they're very hard to analyze.
Data analysis actually includes the
processing or the cleaning of the data.
If you go and obtain a dataset that's
actually a raw image file and you process
it, and turn it into a nice data frame
that then you use to analyze an ARM.
That data processing actually
is part of the data analysis,
your data science pipeline.
In fact a huge component of a data
scientist's job is performing those sorts
of processing operations.
The raw data may only need to be processed
once, but regardless of how often you
process it, you need to keep a record
of all the different things you did.
Because it can have a major impact
on the data stream analysis.
The processed data is data
that is ready for analysis.
So the processing of the data might
include merging, subsetting, transforming,
or you might go into a file and
extract out a part of an image.
You might go into a file and
extract out a little bit of text
from a preformed text field.
Or you may do a number of other things.
Depending on the field that you work in,
there may be standards for processing.
For example,
in the area where I work, genomics,
there are a lot of really standard
preprocessing techniques that need to be
applied before you can analyze data.
A critical, critical component is
that all steps should be recorded.
I can't state this strongly enough.
Preprocessing often ends up being the most
important component of a data analysis in
terms of affect on the downstream data.
So paying attention to all the steps that
you did is critically important if you're
going to be a data scientist who's
careful about understanding what's really
happening in the entire
data processing pipeline.
So, I'm gonna give you one really quick
example of a processing pipeline just to
illustrate what I mean by there
being different levels of raw data.
So, this an Illumina HiSeq machine,
so what this machine can be
used to do is to sequence DNA.
And so that sequencing is much, much
faster now than it used to be in the past.
When the original Human Genome Project
got started, it took almost a decade and
over a $1 billion to
sequence one human genome.
And that same process can now
be performed in about a week for
about $10,000 using a machine like this.
So it's an example of how data
are becoming more and more cheap and
easier to collect.
And so the way that this machine works
in a very, very rough overview is,
you end up with, you can imagine how
you could start with fragments of DNA.
So it starts with little fragments
of DNA which are bound to a slide.
So each fragment might
be 500 letters long,
so you can think of your DNA as
a string of 3 billion letters.
And so you take a small chunk of that,
500 letters, and bind it to this slide.
And then there's a chemical
process by which multiple
copies of that same sequence are made.
And so what ends up happening is
this process is performed
through sequencing by synthesis.
And so what happens is the complementary
base or the complementary letter to each
letter in the sequence that's attached
to the slide is attached one at a time.
And each different letter A, C,
T, and G get a different color.
So what happens is, for
each little cluster,
you get a color at every single
new nucleotide that's synthesized.
And so
those colors create a series of images.
And so, for example,
when you're synthesizing the first
nucleotide you might get this image.
Then this image at the second one and
this image at the third one and so forth.
If you zoom in on one specific little dot,
that corresponds to the sequence of
exactly one of these little clusters
of sequences that are exactly the same.
And so what you can do is you can
follow along from image to image,
you can see what the color is in
that image, and in that image, and
in that image, and in that image.
And what you end up with is, for each
image, the color corresponding to each
letter, whichever one is the brightest is
the one that you assign to that sequence.
So for example, in the very first
letter for this particular fragment is
going to be a C, because you can see
that of these four letters right here,
the C is actually the highest.
And then in the second nucleotide,
you can actually see
that the highest letter out of these four,
or the most bright letter, is the G.
And so the next letter that we'd
assign would be a G and so forth.
So, the final thing that you end up
with is something like this FASTQ
file that I've shown
a few times in the class.
So the FASTQ file is a text file where,
for
each of these little fragments
that you've got on the plate,
you actually see a specific set
of letters, As, Cs, Ts and Gs.
So you can think about the raw data
being in several different steps.
So the raw data might be these image files
down here, so you have to process those
image files in order to get these profiles
here for each different fragment.
And then after you have the profiles
you have to process those in order
to make predictions about which
letters should go into the sequences
that actually end up right here.
So any of these stages
could be considered raw and
in each of these stages there are a number
of computational steps that could have
major impact that must be applied.
And so one thing to keep in mind when
you're doing data analysis is, frequently,
you might end up analyzing these so called
reads, that come off of this machine.
Or you might even analyze
something that's downstream,
say some counts based on
adding up some of those reads.
When you do that,
you're glossing over the fact that all of
these processing steps happen beforehand.
And so those processing steps
can have a major impact.
And part of this course is sort of
understanding what those processing
steps are so you can make sure that
your analysis isn't being driven by
artifacts caused by the way that you
went from the raw data to the tidy data.
So that's what getting data is all about,
is taking raw data and
turning it into processed data.